<!-- Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 2.5
   - https://spdx.org/licenses/CC-BY-NC-ND-2.5.html 
   - (C) 2020 Manifold Finance, Inc. -->

# Definitions

<< TODO: Ensure language for validators, ETH deposits, and other network entities is clear >>

<div class="important">

Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, the following terms shall
have the following meanings when used in these Rules:

</div>

Words used in the singular form in the rules and regulations in this
chapter shall be deemed to import the plural and vice versa, as the
context may require. The following terms, as used in the "Rulebook", or
in the rules and regulations in this chapter, shall have the meanings
hereby assigned to them, unless the context otherwise requires:

<div class="caution">

Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, the following terms shall
have the following meanings when used in these Rules:

</div>

“Account” means a Customer Account or a Member Property Account, as
context requires, used in conjunction with the trading or delivery of
commodity products. “Appeal Panel” means a panel comprised of
individuals appointed by the Board or the Chief Compliance Officer to
consider appeals under Rule 602.

“Applicable Law” means with respect to any Person, any statute, law,
regulation, rule or ordinance of any governmental authority applicable
to such Person, including the CEA, CFTC Regulations, and the rules or
regulations of any relevant Self-Regulatory Organization.

“Approved Depository Institution” means a bank, trust company or other
depository that has been approved by Manifold Finance as an
acceptable location for depositing Clearing Participant funds or
Collateral, as applicable.

“Authorized Representative” means an individual designated by a Clearing
Participant and registered with Manifold Finance with authority to
act on behalf of the Clearing Participant.

“Board” means the board of directors of Manifold Finance, as set
forth in the LLC Agreement.

“Business Day” means any day on which the Clearinghouse is open for
clearing. References in these Rules to a “day” or “Business Day” shall,
unless the context otherwise requires, mean the “Business Day”
corresponding to the trading day of the Exchange.

“CEA” means the Commodity Exchange Act, as it may be amended from time
to time. “CFTC” means the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission.

“CFTC Regulations” means the rules, regulations and interpretations
promulgated by the CFTC pursuant to the CEA, as in effect from time to
time.

“Clearinghouse” means Manifold Finance LLC

“Clearing Participant” means an FCM Participant or Direct Clearing
Participant who has executed a Clearing Participant Agreement, and to
whom the Clearinghouse has granted the right to clear contracts on the
Clearinghouse.

“Clearing Participant Agreement” means the agreement for clearing
privileges between Manifold Finance and a Clearing Participant.

“Collateral” means digital assets or other assets deposited by a
Clearing Participant as from time to time determined by the
Clearinghouse as acceptable in accordance with

“Committee” means a committee established by the Board or otherwise,
pursuant to the Rules.

“Contract” means, as context requires, any forward contracts, futures
contract, options contract or spot contract, agreement, or transaction
on a commodity (as such term is defined in the CEA or CFTC Regulations),
which has been approved for clearing by Freight Trust & Clearing
pursuant to these Rules.

“Customer” shall have the meaning set forth in CFTC Regulation 1.3(k).

“Customer Account” means an account established by an FCM Clearing
Participant with Manifold Finance in which the FCM Clearing
Participant maintains trades, positions and Margin solely for Customers.

“Default” means, with respect to a Clearing Participant, if such
Clearing Participant (a) fails to satisfy any of its Obligations, (b)
fails to deliver funds within the time established therefor by Freight
Trust & Clearing, (c) is expelled or suspended from the Exchange,
Manifold Finance or any Self-Regulatory Organization, (d) fails to
meet the minimum capital and other financial requirements of
Manifold Finance, or (e) is Insolvent.

“Direct Clearing Participant” means a Person that submits trades for
clearing at Manifold Finance on behalf of its own account(s), has
completed a Clearing Participant Agreement and has been granted clearing
privileges by the Clearinghouse.

“Directors” means members of the Board.

“Disciplinary Panel” means a panel comprised of individuals appointed by
the Board at the recommendation of the Chief Compliance Officer to act
in an adjudicative role and fulfill various adjudicative
responsibilities and duties described in Chapter 6. “Emergency” shall
have the meaning set forth in Rule 207.

Manifold Finance means Manifold Finance Corporation a Delaware
C-Corporation.

“Exchange” means (TBD). and its respective successors.

“Exchange Committee” includes the Regulatory Oversight, Exchange
Participant Committee, Nomination, or Exchange Practices Committees of
the Exchange, and any other future or successor committee of the
Exchange.

“FCM Clearing Participant” means a Person that is registered with the
CFTC as a Futures Commission Merchant, has completed a Clearing
Participant Agreement and has been granted clearing privileges by the
Clearinghouse.

“Futures Commission Merchant” or “FCM” shall have the meaning set forth
in CFTC Regulation 1.3(p).

“Government Agency” means the CFTC and/or any other governmental agency
or department regulating the activities of a Clearing Participant.

“Insolvent” and “Insolvency” means the Clearing Participant has become
the subject of a bankruptcy petition, receivership proceeding, or an
equivalent proceeding.

“LLC Agreement” means the Limited Liability Company Agreement of
Manifold Finance, as amended or restated from time to time.

“Margin” means funds or the applicable amount of the deliverable asset
required to fully collateralize Contracts as set forth in Rule 403.

“Member Property Account” means an account established by a Clearing
Participant with Manifold Finance in which the Clearing Participant
maintains trades, positions and Margin solely on its own behalf.

“Obligations” means all financial obligations of a Clearing Participant,
however arising, whether absolute or contingent, direct or indirect, due
or to become to be due, arising under these Rules or such Clearing
Participant’s agreements with Manifold Finance. “Officer” has the
meaning set forth in Rule 204.

“Person” means an individual, sole proprietorship, partnership, limited
liability company, association, firm, trust, corporation or other
entity, as the context may require. “Regulations” means rules,
regulations, guidance, or advisories promulgated by the CFTC.

“Removal Event” means (a) the termination of the Clearing Participant
Agreement; (b) a materially false or misleading representation or
warranty made by the Clearing Participant to Manifold Finance under
or in connection with any agreement between Manifold Finance and
the Clearing Participant; (c) the breach by the Clearing Participant of
the Rules or any of the terms or provisions of any agreement between
Manifold Finance and the Clearing Participant which is not remedied
promptly after notice from Manifold Finance; (d) a material
violation of the rules of the Exchange, or (e) a Default by the Clearing
Participant.

“Rule” means a Rule of Manifold Finance either contained in this
Rulebook or in guidance or notices from Manifold Finance.

“Self-Regulatory Organization” shall mean any futures or securities
exchange, derivatives clearing organization, securities clearing agency,
or National Futures Association.

“Settlement Price” has the meaning set forth in Rule 410. “Transfer
Trade” has the meaning set forth in Rule 408.

“UCC” means the Uniform Commercial Code as in effect in the State of
Illinois or the State of Delaware.

**Business day** This term means any day other than a Sunday or holiday
that is federally recognized.

**Cancellation of insurance** means the withdrawal of insurance coverage
by either the insurer or the insured. Endorsement means an amendment to
an insurance policy. Environmental restoration means restitution for the
loss, damage, or destruction of natural resources arising out of the
accidental discharge, dispersal, release or escape into or upon the
land, atmosphere, watercourse, or body of water of any commodity
transported by a motor carrier. This shall include the cost of removal
and the cost of necessary measure taken to minimize or mitigate damage
to human health, the natural environment, fish, shellfish, and wildlife.

**Evidence of security** means a surety bond or a policy of insurance
with the appropriate endorsement attached.

**Financial responsibility \*\*means the financial reserves (e.g.,
insurance policies or surety bonds) sufficient to satisfy liability
amounts set forth in this subpart covering public liability.**

**For-hire carriage** means the business of transporting, for
compensation, the goods or property of another. In bulk means the
transportation, as cargo, of property, except Division 1.1, 1.2, or 1.3
materials, and Division 2.3, Hazard Zone A gases, in containment systems
with capacities in excess of 3500 water gallons. In bulk (Division 1.1,
1.2, and 1.3 explosives) means the transportation, as cargo, of any
Division 1.1, 1.2, or 1.3 materials in any quantity. In bulk (Division
2.3, Hazard Zone A or Division 6.1, Packing Group I, Hazard Zone A
materials) means the transportation, as cargo, of any Division 2.3,
Hazard Zone A, or Division 6.1, packing Group I, Hazard Zone A material,
in any quantity. Insured and principal means the motor carrier named in
the policy of insurance, surety bond, endorsement, or notice of
cancellation, and also the fiduciary of such motor carrier.

**Insurance premium** means the monetary sum an insured pays an insurer
for acceptance of liability for public liability claims made against the
insured.

**Motor carrier** means a for-hire motor carrier or a private motor
carrier. The term includes, but is not limited to, a motor carrier’s
agent, officer, or representative; an employee responsible for hiring,
supervising, training, assigning, or dispatching a driver; or an
employee concerned with the installation, inspection, and maintenance of
motor vehicle equipment and/or accessories.

**Property damage** means damage to or loss of use of tangible property.
Public liability means liability for bodily injury or property damage
and includes liability for environmental restoration.

**State** means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia,
Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Guam, and the Northern
Mariana Islands.Cancellation of insurance means the withdrawal of
insurance coverage by either the insurer or the insured.

**Endorsement** means an amendment to an insurance policy.

**Environmental restoration** means restitution for the loss, damage, or
destruction of natural resources arising out of the accidental
discharge, dispersal, release or escape into or upon the land,
atmosphere, watercourse, or body of water of any commodity transported
by a motor carrier. This shall include the cost of removal and the cost
of necessary measure taken to minimize or mitigate damage to human
health, the natural environment, fish, shellfish, and wildlife.

**Evidence of security** means a surety bond or a policy of insurance
with the appropriate endorsement attached.

**Financial responsibility** means the financial reserves (e.g.,
insurance policies or surety bonds) sufficient to satisfy liability
amounts set forth in this subpart covering public liability.

**For-hire carriage** means the business of transporting, for
compensation, the goods or property of another.

**In bulk** means the transportation, as cargo, of property, except
Division 1.1, 1.2, or 1.3 materials, and Division 2.3, Hazard Zone A
gases, in containment systems with capacities in excess of 3500 water
gallons. In bulk (Division 1.1, 1.2, and 1.3 explosives) means the
transportation, as cargo, of any Division 1.1, 1.2, or 1.3 materials in
any quantity. In bulk (Division 2.3, Hazard Zone A or Division 6.1,
Packing Group I, Hazard Zone A materials) means the transportation, as
cargo, of any Division 2.3, Hazard Zone A, or Division 6.1, packing
Group I, Hazard Zone A material, in any quantity. Insured and principal
means the motor carrier named in the policy of insurance, surety bond,
endorsement, or notice of cancellation, and also the fiduciary of such
motor carrier. Insurance premium means the monetary sum an insured pays
an insurer for acceptance of liability for public liability claims made
against the insured.

**Motor carrier** means a for-hire motor carrier or a private motor
carrier. The term includes, but is not limited to, a motor carrier’s
agent, officer, or representative; an employee responsible for hiring,
supervising, training, assigning, or dispatching a driver; or an
employee concerned with the installation, inspection, and maintenance of
motor vehicle equipment and/or accessories.

**Account** means a Customer Account or a Member Property Account, as
context requires, used in conjunction with the trading or delivery of
commodity products or smart contracts. **Appeal Panel** means a panel
comprised of individuals appointed by the Board or the Chief Compliance
Officer to consider appeals under Rule 602.

**Applicable Law** means with respect to any Person, any statute, law,
regulation, rule or ordinance of any governmental authority applicable
to such Person, including the CEA, CFTC Regulations, and the rules or
regulations of any relevant Self-Regulatory Organization.

**Approved Depository Institution** means a bank, trust company or other
depository that has been approved by Manifold Finance as an
acceptable location for depositing Clearing Participant funds or
Collateral, as applicable.

**Authorized Representative** means an individual designated by a
Clearing Participant and registered with Manifold Finance with
authority to act on behalf of the Clearing Participant.

**Board** means the board of directors of Manifold Finance, as set
forth in the LLC Agreement.

**Business Day** means any day on which the Clearinghouse is open for
clearing. References in these Rules to a *day* or **Business Day**
shall, unless the context otherwise requires, mean the "\`Business
Day\*\* corresponding to the trading day of the Platform/Network.

**CEA** means the Commodity Exchange Act, as it may be amended from time
to time. *CFTC* means the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission.

**CFTC Regulations** means the rules, regulations and interpretations
promulgated by the CFTC pursuant to the CEA, as in effect from time to
time.

**Chain** means the Freight Trust Network, *see Network*

**Clearinghouse** means Manifold Finance LLC.

**Clearing Participant** means an FCM Participant or Direct Clearing
Participant who has executed a Clearing Participant Agreement, and to
whom the Clearinghouse has granted the right to clear contracts on the
Network/Platform.

**Clearing Participant Agreement** means the agreement for clearing
privileges between Manifold Finance and a Clearing Participant.

**Collateral** means digital assets or other assets deposited by a
Clearing Participant as from time to time determined by the
Clearinghouse as acceptable in accordance with Rule 403(b).

**Committee** means a committee established by the Board or otherwise,
pursuant to the Rules.

**Contract** means, as context requires, any forward contracts, futures
contract, options contract or spot contract, agreement, or transaction
on a commodity (as such term is defined in the CEA or CFTC Regulations),
which has been approved for clearing by Freight Trust & Clearing
pursuant to these Rules.

**Cryptocurrency** means any *Digital Asset*

**Customer** shall have the meaning set forth in CFTC Regulation 1.3(k).

**Customer Account** means an account established by an FCM Clearing
Participant with Manifold Finance in which the FCM Clearing
Participant maintains trades, positions and Margin solely for Customers.

**Default** means, with respect to a Clearing Participant, if such
Clearing Participant (a) fails to satisfy any of its Obligations, (b)
fails to deliver funds within the time established therefor by Freight
Trust & Clearing, (c) is expelled or suspended from the Exchange,
Manifold Finance or any Self-Regulatory Organization, (d) fails to
meet the minimum capital and other financial requirements of
Manifold Finance, or (e) is Insolvent.

**Direct Clearing Participant** means a Person that submits trades for
clearing at Manifold Finance on behalf of its own account(s), has
completed a Clearing Participant Agreement and has been granted clearing
privileges by the Clearinghouse Proper.

**Directors** means members of the Board.

**Digital Asset** refers to but is not limited to Bitcoin ($XBT)
Ethereum ($ETH), $BOL, or any Smart-Contract dervied Asset or UTXO
asset.

**Disciplinary Panel** means a panel comprised of individuals appointed
by the Board at the recommendation of the Chief Compliance Officer to
act in an adjudicative role and fulfill various adjudicative
responsibilities and duties described in Chapter 6. *Emergency* shall
have the meaning set forth in Rule 207.

**Freight Trust** means Manifold Finance & Clearing Corporation a Delaware
C-Corporation.

**Exchange** means (TBD). and its respective successors.

**Exchange Committee** includes the Regulatory Oversight, Exchange
Participant Committee, Nomination, or Exchange Practices Committees of
the Exchange, and any other future or successor committee of the
Exchange.

**EVM** refers to the *Ethereum Virtual Machine*

**FCM Clearing Participant** means a Person that is registered with the
CFTC as a Futures Commission Merchant, has completed a Clearing
Participant Agreement and has been granted clearing privileges by the
Network/Clearinghouse.

**Fungible Tokens**

**Futures Commission Merchant** or *FCM* shall have the meaning set
forth in CFTC Regulation 1.3(p).

**Genesis File** refers to the
[genesis.json](https://github.com/freight-trust/spec/genesis.json) file.
This file determines the *Network Protocol*

**Government Agency** means the CFTC and/or any other governmental
agency or department regulating the activities of a Clearing
Participant.

**Insolvent** and **Insolvency** means the Clearing Participant has
become the subject of a bankruptcy petition, receivership proceeding, or
an equivalent proceeding.

**Margin** means funds or the applicable amount of the deliverable asset
required to fully collateralize Contracts as set forth in Rule 403.

**Member Property Account** means an account established by a Clearing
Participant with Manifold Finance in which the Clearing Participant
maintains trades, positions and Margin solely on its own behalf.

**Network** refers to the Blockchain Network generated through the
*genisis file*

**Network Participant** means any user and/or service provider that
transacts, provides services including but not limited to connectivity,
block generation, concensus, API access, RPC access, or otherwises
participates on-chain.

**Network Protocol** means the protocol initalized and specificed in the
*genesis file*

**Node** means a service provider that provides, signs, validates or
otherwise propergates blocks generated on the network.

**Non-Fungible Tokens**

**Obligations** means all financial obligations of a Clearing
Participant, however arising, whether absolute or contingent, direct or
indirect, due or to become to be due, arising under these Rules or such
Clearing Participant’s agreements with Manifold Finance.

**Officer** has the meaning set forth in Rule 204.

**Person** means an individual, sole proprietorship, partnership,
limited liability company, association, firm, trust, corporation or
other entity, as the context may require.

**Protocol** can refer to the *Network Protocol* or a *Regime*

**Regulations** means rules, regulations, guidance, or advisories
promulgated by the CFTC.

**Removal Event** means (a) the termination of the Clearing Participant
Agreement; (b) a materially false or misleading representation or
warranty made by the Clearing Participant to Manifold Finance under
or in connection with any agreement between Manifold Finance and
the Clearing Participant; (c) the breach by the Clearing Participant of
the Rules or any of the terms or provisions of any agreement between
Manifold Finance and the Clearing Participant which is not remedied
promptly after notice from Manifold Finance; (d) a material
violation of the rules of the Exchange, or (e) a Default by the Clearing
Participant.

**Rule** means a Rule of Manifold Finance either contained in this
Rulebook or in guidance or notices from Manifold Finance.

**Self-Regulatory Organization** shall mean any futures or securities
exchange, derivatives clearing organization, securities clearing agency,
or National Futures Association.

**Settlement Price** has the meaning set forth in Rule 410.

**Smart Contract** means an executable program that runs on the network
through the EVM.

**Transfer Trade** has the meaning set forth in Rule 408.

**UCC** means the Uniform Commercial Code as in effect in the State of
Illinois, California, New York, and Delaware. Interpretation deteremined
by parties.

## In these Rules, unless the context clearly requires otherwise

    (a) words in the singular include the plural and words in the plural include the singular,
    (b) any gender includes each other gender,
    (c) references to statutory provisions include those provisions, and any rules or regulations promulgated thereunder, as amended, and
    (d) all uses of the word “including” should be construed to mean “including, but not limited to.
    
    Headings included herein are for convenience purposes only and do not form a part of these Rules.

**Date and Time References** Unless otherwise specified, all references
to dates, times or time periods shall refer to, or be measured in
accordance with the time in New York City, New York.
